All right,
let's talk about using top types.
What are some practical uses of top types?
The first example I'm gonna
show you is handling errors.
So here we've got a function
called doSomethingRisky.
It flips a coin and if it's heads,
it returns the string ok.
And then it flips another coin and
it says,
all right, if that one's heads,
we throw an error.
And then finally we say, all right,
we're gonna throw a string at the end,
which is bad.
Don't throw strings.
How many people in here throw strings?
My guy, you shouldn't do this.
And I've told you this, so
you're not gonna do it now.
But how much do you trust everything
inside your node modules folder?
How much do you trust every piece
of code that's part of your app?
That it's throwing a proper throwable,
a proper error.
It's almost certain something in there is
throwing a string or throwing an object.
It's not an error.
So, what we're doing here, and this is
one place where unknown can be used.
We're saying we're gonna have a try catch,
but
we're gonna type this error in
the catch block as an unknown.
And effectively what we're doing here is
we're saying, TypeScript, keep me honest.
I am not allowed to assume that this
is an error before checking it.
If we didn't do this,
I forgot what my compiler setting
currently is but let's see.
If we didn't do this, it would be in any.
It would be super easy to reach
into this e, and do like,
Could do e.stack,
we could do e.name or e.message.
You could treat this,
you could be thinking in your mind like,
this is probably an error,
I will treat it as an error.
So it's useful to say anything I catch,
I wanna type as unknown.
And in fact, there is a compiler setting,
and I'm just real quick,
gonna go to the TS config for
this notes package.
So this is in packages notes intermediate,
ts-v2 and the tsconfig there, and
we can say, UseUnknownInCatchVariables,
we'll set that to true.
What this lets us do is we don't
even have to say this anymore.
E will always be an unknown.
I love enabling this flag, it's great.
This gives you some assurance and
some encouragement
to handle throwables robustly,
which is important.
If you've ever seen a log file
with object in it or something.
Console dot logs object, you'll
understand how this could be valuable and
how you could handle errors in a special
way and strings in a special way.
However you need to do this.
You could probably even write a reusable
function in here that would be,
like serialize error or
something like that, that could handle all
of those different possibilities for you.
So protip, turn this on and
then you don't have to worry about like
did we remember to put colon unknown
in every single cache block.
It's just like the base assumption
TypeScript will make is to do this, so
that is a great use of unknown.
Sorry, there's another good use for
unknown.
I'll just talk about it cuz
they don't have it here, but
we'll look at it a little bit later
in a later chapter when we have
an example that involves it,
receiving API responses.
So sometimes we have control over
the API and then the API client.
Let's say we're building
a browser-based app with Typescript.
Sometimes we know what the API response
is gonna be or it's like guaranteed to be
a set of a couple things and we could hard
code some assumptions about the types.
You'd say, here's what
a successful API shape looks like,
here's what an error looks like,
could be one of these two things.
But if you're talking to
APIs that you don't control,
in particular where they could
change underneath you, and
you don't have control over the timing
of that change, or whatever that is.
Some people like to say,
okay, I want to treat this as
an unknown when my fetch
returns its JSON response.
And then I'm going to apply some
typeguards to make sure that this is what
I expect it to be.
And the end result there,
there are pros and cons, but
the cons are you're paying a cost at
runtime to apply these typeguards and
to validate that this thing is
what you hope it's gonna be.
But what you get there is you get a much
more actionable error when it's thrown.
It's not gonna be sort of the API response
flows through, maybe it goes into a bunch
of React components, and you're like,
why is this property not here?
It should be here and
you trace it back and ultimately like,
the API changed underneath me.
Instead, you'll sort of be validating
that API response as it enters your app,
and you could see, all right,
expected shape was this,
and it came in, and
it was not that shape throw.
So that's another good use of unknown.
Also, one more use, if you're passing a
value through a piece of code that doesn't
need to know about it.
Sometimes you can treat it as an unknown,
and
then say you have a library that takes
something a consumer of the library
provides you, and you just wanna
hand it back to them unaltered.
Unknown would prevent you from
sort of touching that object, or
becoming entangled with any specific
shape that that object could be.
It's just like some value that's like
piggybacking in your library and
eventually goes back to the person
that provided it with you.
So we would describe this
as like an opaque value.
Sometimes there's a good reason for that.
Sometimes you wanna make sure that in
your code you're treating it as opaque.
That's sort of establishing a guarantee
that you're not going to be
making any assumptions about this thing,
you can't,
not unless you start
applying type parts to it.
And even if you do that, those
assumptions are validated in your code.
You only treat it as a string
if it's actually a string.
Let's see, Marjon asks,
should we to reuse typecasting then or
setting up some typeguards?
If I control both my API and
my API client, I would probably cast.
I mean, if you wanna look at the my
full stack TypeScript course on
Frontend Masters, that's an example
of where we use a single set of types
that are shared both in the backend and
the frontend.
And there, it's very clear.
Technically, we're casting, but
we have this very strong relationship.
It's literally a server and
a client folder in the same git repo.
Everything is in sync with
every single git commit.
In that situation, I'd say definitely
cast, if you still control a backend and
the frontend, but
they're not sharing a single set of types.
I might cast there as well, because often,
there's a coordinated release,
where you make sure that get
the API out there first, and
it's always backwards compatible.
And then we roll out the UI,
which depends on the new API.
It's sort of a release
management problem there.
Where I would definitely use typeguards
is if you're talking to another API,
maybe one that is not a SAS product,
it would be an API that sort of,
Maybe it's very few people use it and
there's a high rate of change,
or you don't have any way of
knowing when something changes,
that's where I would say
you should use typeguards.
If you were scraping an HTML page,
for example,
and you represent that as JSON,
HTML is gonna change all the time.
People don't think of that as an API.
So that's where I would
say use typeguards.
That will change, and it will bust your
app in terrifying and mysterious ways.
It's better to have it fail
in a very clear way, and
then you know exactly how to fix it.
You can get that out fast and move on.